{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\uc1{\fonttbl{\f0\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}}{\colortbl
;}{\stylesheet{\s0\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Normal;
}}\paperw11905\paperh16838\margt1416\margl1416\margr1416\margb1416\headery720\footery720
\deftab708\pgnstart1\viewkind1\viewscale100\fet0{\*\docvar{ColorSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar
{ColorPos}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StyleSet}{-1}}{\*\docvar{StylePos}{-1}}\pard\plain\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28{\header\pard
\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\fs24\par}{\footer\pard\aspalpha
\aspnum\nooverflow\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\fs24\par}Terminology note\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The game starts out
 in the near future. Throughout this paper, we call the participating nations Americans
, Russians and Arabians. In the game itself we could either use actual names (US
, Russia, Saudi Arabia) or we could make up more or less altered versions (e.g., 
North American Union, United Arab States, etc.). The crucial element in the game
 is the discovery of a new mineral. For now, we will simply call it the "new material
" or "new mineral". It is of course going to have a real name in the game. For reasons
 that will be explained later, it will have one name for the Americans and Arabs
 (e.g., siberite) and a different one for the Russians (e.g., alaskite).\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Story outline\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The year is 2010. The
 Euro fails and the European Union crumbles under the strain of renewed nationalism
. The hard-liners in Moscow win a decisive victory when general Prokhorov, the former
 head of the KGB, is elected president of Russia. He immediately calls into question
 the independence of the former Soviet republics and East European countries. Western
 Europe, weaker than ever before, is by no means able to deal with the Russian threat
. The seemingly dead-and-buried spectre of European war comes back in full force
... \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 In a UN effort to ease
 the Russian economic crisis \endash  and by extension quell Russian nationalism
 \endash  an American expedition arrives in Central Siberia to assess the oil deposits
 there. But instead of oil it discovers a deposits of a hitherto unknown mineral
. The American scientists find out, however, that this mineral is in fact identical
 to the substance used to power an extraterrestrial object in possession of the 
State Department. This object is called EON (Extraterrestrial Object Nexus) and 
it is a capsule about the size and shape of a telephone booth. It was found in 1919
 by the Russian Railway Service Corps \endash  a US military unit that was to ensure
 transport of US war supplies from the city of Vladivostok to the Eastern front 
in World War I \endash  near the site of the Tunguska explosion. It was covertly
 transported to the United States where it underwent scientific examination. Experiments
 have shown that items placed in the capsule are transported hundreds of thousands
 of years back in time \endash  to a period when primitive human ancestors walked
 the Earth. The American scientists were however unable to understand its construction
, nor did they manage to synthesise its fuel. Eventually, the machine \endash  classified
 military secret \endash  was stored for future reference, beside the Ark of the
 Covenant and other interesting items.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 One think however remains
 certain. The EON fuel is known to be a virtually inexhaustible source of energy
. Should is come into hands of comrade general Prokhorov and his crones; the strategic
 balance would shift irrevocably. The Americans therefore decide to act quickly 
before the Russians also become aware of the mineral. With the help of EON, they
 begin to send special units into the past to mine the mineral and transport it 
to Alaska \endash  at the time it was possible to walk there from Siberia by land
. The experiments have also shown that the objects sent to past appear randomly, 
scattered both in time and in space. They appear over a period of roughly five years
 and over an area some 30 miles in diameter.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The Arabian governments
 learn of the scheme and, fearing a crash in oil prices, decide to stop it. They
 ambush the expedition team, seize the EON and start sending their own men into 
the past \endash  fanatics, criminals and mercenaries charged with the destruction
 of the mineral deposit. But the Arabian scientists have no better grasp of the 
EON working principles than their American counterparts and because of their effort
 to enlarge EON capacity they inadvertently transport it to the past as well.\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 In an alternate future
 where the Americans managed to succeed in their plans, the USA are even more economically
 influential then today. USSR is a large and poor country, stubbornly refusing to
 relinquish its dream of communist society \endash  or so it wants to appear to 
the outsiders. In fact, it is a large and poor country ruled by Communist party 
and Cheka (KGB), a police state much the same as it was in our branch of reality
. But one day the Russians find the remnants of the American and Arabian expeditions
 in Siberia, along with the lost EON. They surmise what happened and decide to prevent
 the situation by transporting their men back into the past to a period shortly 
before the arrival of the first Americans so that they can protect the mineral deposit
. The Russian scientists try to understand EON workings but fail just as the American
 and Arabian ones. They try to increase EON carrying capacity and accidentally destroy
 it in the process.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Thus, when the game
 starts, there are three nations fighting for the control of deposits of siberite
, each of them with different goal in mind: to mine them, to destroy them or to 
protect them. In the course of campaign, the player will gradually become aware 
that siberite is a product of some ancient extra-terrestrial civilization and he
 will also find various parts of other alien technology. These remains are in sum
 called \u8220\'93artefacts\u8221\'94. Eventually, the player might be able to find
 out that the EON is a broken warping device that was built and abandoned billions
 of years ago and its creators had also built stockpiles of fuel \endash  what are
 now deposits of siberite. \par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The player's story\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The complex storyline
 allows us to create three full-fledged plots, each with several different possible
 endings. Unlike the majority of other RTS games, the player is not playing for 
some abstract "side", e.g., Russians or Americans, but for his own character instead
. The player's character is actually present in most missions and the player must
 protect him at all cost because his death spells the end of the game. This scheme
 gives the player an option of changing loyalties and switching sides during the
 game. It is up to player whether he chooses to carry out his task until the end
 or to join the Alliance or the renegade Legion.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Story development\par
}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The player starts by
 choosing his side and is then assigned as a character to the expedition team of
 the appropriate country. He learns his side's version of the story from the intro
 and the game starts. None of the three intros gives out the whole story. The player
 knows only a part of it and has to piece it together from the information gained
 during missions and the briefings between them. The resulting situation is quite
 surprising for all sides \endash  the Americans don't expect to encounter any enemies
 but find two, the Russians and the Arabs know about the Americans but they not 
about each other. The Russians have the advantage of being first on the scene, yet
 they have the least materials and equipment because they destroyed the EON relatively
 early on. Only the Americans are aware of the spatial and temporal dispersion, 
whereas the other two teams don't realise that they are going to arrive alone, etc
.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 The three expeditions
 teams find themselves in the very distant past and none of them is complete (the
 extraterrestrial object was stolen, sent back into time or destroyed prematurely
). Because of the relatively great temporal and spatial dispersion of the different
 transmissions, both people and equipment arrive gradually in different places and
 at different times. Moreover, due to the limited volume of the eon, only spare 
parts and raw materials can be transported, not complete machines. The first and
 foremost task of all sides is to establish a foothold in the hostile environment
 filled with wild beasts and primitive human ancestors. Then each side has its specific
 assigned task \endash  to transport, destroy or protect the mineral deposits. There
 is also a fourth side in the game \endash  the so-called Apemen, our human ancestors
. They are hostile at first, but it is possible to gain their confidence and even
 train them. Two new sides emerge during the game. The Alliance is formed by those
 Americans and Russians who decide to solve the situation peacefully and split the
 mineral deposit. The Legion is created by renegade mercenaries when they learn 
they have been cheated (the Arabs promised them the possibility of returning to 
the present). The Legion is on its own and can be a tentative ally of any of the
 other sides. An important ingredient of the game is also the feeling that, hundreds
 of thousands years in the past, the present-day quarrels seem remote and the fight
 for new mineral increasingly unnecessary. These trends lead to internal conflicts
 on all sides, to the formation of the Alliance, desertions, attempts to start farms
 and villages or live with the Apemen, to the founding of the Legion, etc.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\page The player can
 choose from two campaigns: the American and Russian one. As an American, the player
 takes on the role of Lt. John Macmillan, assigned to mission Globemine, an attempt
 to use an extra-terrestrial time-machine to transport US forces two millions years
 in the past so that they can mine a strange mineral, called siberite, in wastes
 of Central Siberia, and transport it to Alaska. Siberite, a greenish crystalline
 mineral, was discovered by US expedition operating under UN mandate in Siberia 
in 2003. It turns out to be a catalyst of cold fusion and altogether far too powerful
 to be allowed to fall into Russian hands.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 As a Russian, the player
's character is Yuri I. "Burlak" Gorky, a mechanic of Soviet Army. But it's slightly
 different Soviet Army we know \endash  it never fought Hitler, never was purged
 by Stalin and fights in a world where Siberite is commonplace. Burlak's task is
 to use a time machine, recently discovered in Central Siberia, along with the two
 millions years old remnants of US mining machinery, to travel into past and prevent
 the American usurpers from stealing what rightfully belongs to Russia.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Both of these are just
 beginnings of complex and twisted story. As the game unfolds, the player learns
 that not everything is as he was told, and is faced with difficult decisions influencing
 the course of game and its ultimate outcome.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Beside the captivating
 storyline, new units, technologies and possibilities opening in front of the player
 will keep him thrilled. In the course of game the style of game, optimal strategy
, the look and feel will change several times.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\page John run Original
 War and loaded save from 3:34 this morning. Hell, he'd them on the run, but you
 {\i have} to sleep sometime, haven't you? It's one of the later American missions
, the objective is somewhat strange: to develop siberite technologies with the help
 of Arabian scientists. These God-damned mercenaries \endash  he never trusted them
 but research went along quite smoothly, so it will be finished soon and hopefully
 next mission will offer more action. John selects a lab to see the progress of 
research and checks the state of defences \endash  just in case something goes wrong
. Suddenly, the action starts. A sturdy Russian vehicle appears, but soon is picked
 up by automatic turrets and shred to pieces. But wait! What are those damned scientists
 up to? They changed their profession to soldiers and started to attack John's units
! John hastily selects couple of men in base and sends them to armoury to pick up
 kit and attack renegade scientists. Now quickly, to the South edge of map, how 
are Russians doing. This is strange \endash  a massive vehicle with strange hat-
like component on top \endash  he never seen likes of it before. It seems to do 
nothing but what's that strange sparkling on John's turrets? And what's wrong with
 them anyway? Why don't they shoot? Now a rocket appears but if flies unbearably
 slowly, like if it was immersed in pool of invisible honey. The Russians suffer
 no such problems, however, they use their big guns to take out turrets one by one
.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Meanwhile the guys 
within base finished off the Arabs. Corporal Peter Rankin even gained so much experience
 from it that he advances to next level and his combat skill increases to four. 
Well done, lads, thinks John and orders them to enter some vehicles he prepared 
for this occasion. Come on, dickheads, now it won't be that easy. Wait till you 
run into my laser-link fence! My double lasers will fry you to crisp before you 
can say "Lenin".\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\page John and Peter
 are playing in the same team \endash  Blue \endash  against Bob who is on Red team
. As he is alone, he has a slight advantage in the amount of material he receives
. John and Peter are using SideWinder Game Voice to communicate over Net. (They 
could use in-game chat as well, but then they would probably use more economic language
.)\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 John: "Peter, I'll 
take this guy to help me with upgrading the factory"\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 - Selects one soldier
 and sends him to factory. Peter can see a yellow arrow above soldier's head denoting
 that it is selected by another player.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Peter: "OK. I'm going
 to look for some material."\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 - Selects three engineers
 and two soldiers and sends them to the centre of map. John can see a circle of 
light moving on his minimap.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 John: "Be careful, 
Bob is sure to be there as well."\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Peter: "No way can 
he have vehicles at this time."\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 John: "The factory 
is upgraded, I'll start production of vehicles. Shall we go for guns or for trucks
?"\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Peter: "Start with 
trucks, we need to collect as much material as we can and it's scattered all over
\emdash  Oh, shit, what's he doing here?"\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 - quickly reselects
 group of engineers and soldiers and sends them back to base.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 Peter: "Go for guns
, John. Bob's got vehicles all right. He'll be here in no time!"\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 - John stops production
 of truck, selects 'Gun' as the vehicle component and starts production.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 John: "Don't panic, 
we have defence bonus in our base. But we must be quick. What do you think \endash
 shall we attack with lasers or should we research rockets instead?"\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\page There are three
 main areas where Original War distinguishes itself from competition:\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 1. New gaming elements
: Unlike other RTS games there is no human-producing facility, no factory to churn
 out soldiers. At the same time, most buildings and vehicles require men or women
 to operate. This makes people a valuable and irreplaceable asset. You may gain 
a new character (he comes through time-machine) but this is very rare and cannot
 be relied upon.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 One of the three resources
 in game, simply called "material" is sent to the past through time machine (you
 can imagine it as crates of spare parts, electronics, etc.). It appears randomly
 all over the map and therefore the area control (as opposed to supply-lines control
 in other RTS games) is vital.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 There are many new 
types of weapons and technologies \endash  time-shafting and space-shifting grenades
, stasis field, double-lasers, Apemen drivers and many more.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 2. RPG elements: Each
 character within game is unique, has his or her own face, name, statistics, background
 and skills. The characters gain experience as they go along, and increase they 
skills. The player can carry characters from mission to mission thus building a 
real attachment to them \endash  they are no longer a faceless grey cannon fodder
 to him. At the end of mission, the player can divide the experience earned among
 his characters like he does in common RPGs.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28 3. Storyline: All missions
 within games are bound together by single storyline. This is not just a fancy backdrop
 to the mission, it is really integrated within each mission and influences its 
progress and objectives. The objectives of missions are more varied than usual in
 RTS games \endash  the objectives like "kill everybody and destroy all buildings
" are rare, objectives as "capture the technology research in lab" or "defend till
 you authorized to retreat" or even "inflict the greatest possible casualties upon
 enemy before you surrender" are more common.\par}

\pard\aspalpha\aspnum\nooverflow{\f0\lang2057\fs24\kerning28\par}

}